packages/babel-preset-swissquote/README.md, before:

# Swissquote Preset for Babel

This package includes the Babel preset used by Crafty.

This preset will do the following for you:

* Transform EcmaScript 2015+ back to EcmaScript 5, according to the list of
  browsers you support. (`@babel/preset-env`)
* Handle non-standard class properties
  (`@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties`)
* Support Object rest, spread and destructuring (`@babel/plugin-proposal-object-rest-spread`, `@babel/plugin-transform-destructuring`)
* [prod/dev] Transpile generators (`@babel/plugin-transform-regenerator`)
* Polyfills the runtime needed for `async`/`await` and generators
  (`@babel/plugin-transform-runtime`)
* Convert JSX to JavaScript (`@babel/preset-react`)
* [prod] Remove React Prop Types in production ( `babel-plugin-transform-react-remove-prop-types` )
* Support Dynamic imports (`@babel/plugin-syntax-dynamic-import`) or convert them
  to a deferred require in tests (`babel-plugin-transform-dynamic-import`)

## Options

| Option        | Default                                         | Effect                                                                          |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `environment` | `process.env.BABEL_ENV || process.env.NODE_ENV` | Overrides the environment, must be one of `development`, `test` or `production` |
| `browsers`    | `babel-preset-env`'s default + IE9              | Sets the list of browsers to support, must be a valid Browserslist query        |

## Usage in Crafty

The easiest way to use this configuration is with Crafty, which includes it by
default. **You don’t need to install it separately in Crafty projects.**

## Usage Outside of Crafty

If you want to use this Babel preset in a project not built with Create React
App, you can install it with following steps.

First, [install Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/setup/).

Then create a file named `.babelrc` with following contents in the root folder
of your project:

```json
{
  "presets": ["@swissquote/swissquote"]
}
```

Commit message:

Deduplicate babel helpers in Webpack

packages/babel-preset-swissquote/README.md, after:

# Swissquote Preset for Babel

This package includes the Babel preset used by Crafty.

This preset will do the following for you:

* Transform EcmaScript 2015+ back to EcmaScript 5, according to the list of
  browsers you support. (`@babel/preset-env`)
* Handle non-standard class properties
  (`@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties`)
* Support Object rest, spread and destructuring (`@babel/plugin-proposal-object-rest-spread`, `@babel/plugin-transform-destructuring`)
* [prod/dev] Transpile generators (`@babel/plugin-transform-regenerator`)
* Polyfills the runtime needed for `async`/`await` and generators
  (`@babel/plugin-transform-runtime`)
* Convert JSX to JavaScript (`@babel/preset-react`)
* [prod] Remove React Prop Types in production ( `babel-plugin-transform-react-remove-prop-types` )
* Support Dynamic imports (`@babel/plugin-syntax-dynamic-import`) or convert them
  to a deferred require in tests (`babel-plugin-transform-dynamic-import`)

## Options

| Option               | Default                                         | Effect                                                                                      |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `environment`        | `process.env.BABEL_ENV || process.env.NODE_ENV` | Overrides the environment, must be one of `development`, `test` or `production`             |
| `browsers`           | `babel-preset-env`'s default + IE9              | Sets the list of browsers to support, must be a valid Browserslist query                    |
| `deduplicateHelpers` | `false`                                         | Defines if the babel helpers (like `createClass`) should be in each file or referenced once |
| `useESModules`       | `false`                                         | Defines if `@babel/plugin-transform-runtime` should use ES modules or commonjs modules      |

## Usage in Crafty

The easiest way to use this configuration is with Crafty, which includes it by
default. **You don’t need to install it separately in Crafty projects.**

## Usage Outside of Crafty

If you want to use this Babel preset in a project not built with Create React
App, you can install it with following steps.

First, [install Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/setup/).

Then create a file named `.babelrc` with following contents in the root folder
of your project:

```json
{
  "presets": ["@swissquote/swissquote"]
}
```
