docs/05_Packages/05_crafty-preset-babel/ESLint_IDE_Integration.md, before:

[TOC]

## IntelliJ IDEA : in-editor linting

![Shows errors inline](./IDE_Integration_eslint_inline.png)

With in-editor linting you can lint your files while linting and also fix some errors automatically with `alt`-`enter`.

![Fixing errors automatically](./IDE_Integration_autofix.png)

Ensure you have the `ESLint` plugin in your IDE.

![ESLint Configuration](./IDE_Integration_eslint_config.png)

This can be changed per-project, the important options are :

- Enable: √
- Node Interpreter : either use the one on your system or the one in your project (generally `src/main/frontend/node/node`)
- ESLint Package : point to your `crafty-preset-babel` package (generally `node_modules/crafty-preset-babel/`)
- Extra ESLint options : Here you choose the presets you want to apply. See below

### Presets

- `format` Base formatting rules, should work on any code (included in `legacy` and `recommended`)
- `node` Adds environment information for Node.js
- `legacy` For all your EcmaScript 5 code
- `recommended` For al your EcmaScript 2015+ code, also contains rules for React

You can use the number of presets you wish, the `format` preset is the one checked by the hooks

You can define them with `--preset {presetName}`

For example running with `--preset recommended` will verify for formatting, common rules, EcmaScript 2015+ specific and React specific rules.

Commit message:

Add `crafty ide` to improve IDE integration

docs/05_Packages/05_crafty-preset-babel/ESLint_IDE_Integration.md, after:

[TOC]

![Shows errors inline](./IDE_Integration_eslint_inline.png)

ESLint's IDE integration relies in general on the `.eslintrc` files (optionally with a .js or .json extension) 

## Options

When generating the configuration file, you can add arguments to specify which presets you want, if you specify nothing it will use the `format` preset.

### Presets

- `format` Base formatting rules, should work on any code (included in `legacy` and `recommended`)
- `node` Adds environment information for Node.js
- `legacy` For all your EcmaScript 5 code
- `recommended` For al your EcmaScript 2015+ code, also contains rules for React

You can use the number of presets you wish, the `format` preset is the one checked by the hooks

You can define them with `--preset {presetName}`

For example running with `crafty ide --preset recommended` will verify for formatting, common rules, EcmaScript 2015+ specific and React specific rules.

## IDE plugins

- __[Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)__
- __[IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7494-eslint)__
