packages/stylelint-config-swissquote/README.md, before:

# Swissquote Stylelint configuration

## Features

- Lint style sheets following the Swissquote CSS Guideline (on form and
  function).
- Uses standard Stylelint rules and includes 4 custom rules.
- Provides a simpler standard for legacy code.

## Presets

- `recommended`: Contains all BEM specific rules.
- `legacy`: Contains rules specific to legacy code.
- `common`: Enforces the styleguide of the CSS. (included in both `recommended`
  and `legacy`)

## Rules

- `no-hack-reassignment`: Hacks (`._*`) must be applied directly on the
  concerned element.
- `no-state-without-component`: States (`.is-*|.has-*`) must appear next to a
  component.
- `no-type-outside-scope`: Types (`a`, `div` ...) must appear inside a scope
  (`.s-*`).
- `no-utility-reassignment`: Utilities (`.u-*`) must be applied directly on the
  concerned element.
- `no-negative-var`: Using `-var(...)` does not work, it should be `calc(var(...) * -1)`

## Usage within Crafty

Crafty includes those rules and presets by default, you don't need to do any
specific action to use them.

## Usage outside Crafty

Outside Crafty, you have to use it as you would for any Stylelint plugin or
preset.

1.  You install it:

    ```bash
    npm install @swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote --save
    ```

1.  You import the plugin and extend from it:
    ```json
    {
      "plugins": ["@swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote"],
      "extends": ["@swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote/recommended"],
      "rules": {
        // your custom rules here
      }
    }
    ```

Commit message:

Add stylelint rule : No variable in transpiled function (#1533)
* Remove direct dependency to @jest/core

* Remove compiled stylelint report function

* modernize rules tester

* Add todo for no-block-inside-block

* Add no-variable-in-transpiled-function rule

* Fix tests

packages/stylelint-config-swissquote/README.md, after:

# Swissquote Stylelint configuration

## Features

- Lint style sheets following the Swissquote CSS Guideline (on form and
  function).
- Uses standard Stylelint rules and includes 4 custom rules.
- Provides a simpler standard for legacy code.

## Presets

- `recommended`: Contains all BEM specific rules.
- `legacy`: Contains rules specific to legacy code.
- `common`: Enforces the styleguide of the CSS. (included in both `recommended`
  and `legacy`)

## Rules

- `no-hack-reassignment`: Hacks (`._*`) must be applied directly on the
  concerned element.
- `no-state-without-component`: States (`.is-*|.has-*`) must appear next to a
  component.
- `no-type-outside-scope`: Types (`a`, `div` ...) must appear inside a scope
  (`.s-*`).
- `no-utility-reassignment`: Utilities (`.u-*`) must be applied directly on the
  concerned element.
- `no-negative-var`: Using `-var(...)` does not work, it should be `calc(var(...) * -1)`
- `no-variable-in-transpiled-function`: Using `var()` inside a transpiled function will make the value static. This means that some parts of your CSS will be dynamic, and some will not.

## Usage within Crafty

Crafty includes those rules and presets by default, you don't need to do any
specific action to use them.

## Usage outside Crafty

Outside Crafty, you have to use it as you would for any Stylelint plugin or
preset.

1.  You install it:

    ```bash
    npm install @swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote --save
    ```

1.  You import the plugin and extend from it:
    ```json
    {
      "plugins": ["@swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote"],
      "extends": ["@swissquote/stylelint-config-swissquote/recommended"],
      "rules": {
        // your custom rules here
      }
    }
    ```
